# Good Time Bad Time

Have you ever had weeks where you went from Thor in the final act of infinity war to Thor in the first act of endgame, mentally speaking? From happy and sorted to wanting to curl up in a corner as a result of nothing in particular. Nothing at all. A tiger didn’t start chasing you, a plane didn’t crash into your house... There is no major impetus. Maybe something silly like the color of a candy wrapper reminded you of your dad’s favorite shirt or maybe the way somebody smiled at you reminded you of the ultimate futility of life, that we are all circling a drain and the end could be as unceremonious as choking on a peanut or getting run over by some guy on his way to a haircut he didn’t really need. Something simple like that.
It often seems to me that life is a series of alternating good times and bad times. Like an eternal MaharajaTM burger in a twisted God’s McDonalds. We really want to hold on to those fleeting good times, often knowing that wanting to hold on too much is probably the catalyst for the eventual relapse into the subsequent bad times. I guess on some level we are all aware of this sinusoidal nature of life, but rarely does it stop us from feeling like a real smelly piece of shit when the bad times do come.
I wish it were easy to enjoy the good times for what they are.
As babies we spend a significant amount of our cute baby power trying to pick things up. Once we do, we are hesitant to let go, after all, we literally spent our whole lives working for it. Chances are, what you picked up was something worthless, probably a poopy diaper or something. The hidden lesson we were entirely too young to learn there was that we also let go of the first thing we picked up - so we could pick up that biscuit later, and then grab onto that railing to eventually get up on to our feet, and then let go of that railing to walk for the first time. Grabbing on and letting go. Learning to do that with our emotions doesn’t come that naturally to us. But I guess that is growing up. Grabbing on to the good moments, letting go and taking a scary walk through the bad times to grab on to yet another good moment. Grabbing on and letting go, two pistons of the same engine.
Maybe the trick is to just enjoy the good times for it’s delicate gossamer whole, and also to not get so busy being sad during the
bad times that we miss the lesson it’s trying to teach us.
Is it genuinely as simple as :
“be happy during the good times and just sad enough during the bad
ones”. ?
Sounds good. A lot of things sound good, the day I finally start being able to actually do it is probably the day I’ll get a text message from buddha asking if I wanna hang out. Until then : Grab on, not for too long. Let go, not forever. Lather, rinse, repeat.
