# Mental Quicksand

There is this rut I fall into sometimes. An endless loop of cause and effect, like being entombed alive in a cyclic mausoleum I have no agency over and which has far too much of it over me. Let’s call this ROUTINE. The harder I wrest the tighter it’s grip. It’s mental quicksand. The same thing over and over and under and every other way too. Whatever I do, it seems tightly adhered to a baseline called yesterday, which gets harder and harder to distinguish from today or tomorrow. Wait, what day is it again? Once I am aware of it, cue self reflective anxiety. Each victory swiftly forgotten - each defeat amplified. “What did he mean when he didn’t say hi?”, “Am I the reason corona exists?”, “Should I be a different person?”
The only certain freedom is in departure, says Frost. That clever bastard. He’s right. The rut can’t be fixed, it must be escaped. Maybe go up to a lush mountain top and pretend you can talk to eagles. Prance across a shallow brook. Naked? Why not! Maybe scuba dive and caress a pink plant which is actually a fish, hopefully not venemous. Go meet a tribe and blow their collective minds by showing them youtube. TikTok if you feel evil. Ride a stallion and quickly realize you don’t know how to and how much better cars are. Meet a group of foreign college students and convince them to let you into their party using only sign language. The important thing is that it’s new. The important thing is that it’s far away. Far enough away that wheel of routine can’t quite roll fast enough to catch up to you. That’s it.....right?
To make a monotonous phase a bit less, well, mono do I just escape? Bandaid, not medicine methinks. If my life was vacation I’d look forward to work. Contrast is the spice of life and he who controls the spice controls the universe. Vacation is not the hero here. It’s change. So many times I’ve punished the agents of routine rather than the routine itself. Though I’ve done it before, it doesn’t make sense to hate everyone around me or idealize anyone that isn’t because I’m in a rut. Stagnation is the bad guy, not everyone else around me. There is beauty in the iterations, I’ve just been desensitized because I’ve seen it before. The departure I talk about is only meaningful when embedded in a sea of routine and only if you mean to come back. The cure is to leave as a corpse and come back reanimated. Like a boomerang not a bullet. It is to leave the old behind for the new and come back with a piece of that newfound newness with you. When I am in a rut, I am the one that needs to change, not the world around me.
